pkg/generic/fake/README.md, before:

# Generic Controller, Client, and Cache Mocks

This package leverages https://github.com/golang/mock for using generic mocks in tests.
[gomock](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/golang/mock/gomock) holds more specific information on different ways to use gomock in test.

## Usage
This package has four entry points for creating a mock controller, client, or cache interface.<br>
 Note: A mock controller will implement both a generic.ControllerInterface and a generic.ClientInterface.
- `NewMockControllerInterface[T runtime.Object, TList runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewMockNonNamespacedControllerInterface[T runtime.Object, TList runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewCacheInterface[T runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewNonNamespaceCacheInterface[T runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`


Example use of generic/fake with a generated Deployment Controller.
``` golang
// Generated controller interface to mock.
type DeploymentController interface {
	generic.ControllerMeta
	DeploymentClient
	OnChange(ctx context.Context, name string, sync DeploymentHandler)
	OnRemove(ctx context.Context, name string, sync DeploymentHandler)
	Enqueue(namespace, name string)
	EnqueueAfter(namespace, name string, duration time.Duration)
	Cache() DeploymentCaches
}
```
``` golang
// Example Test Function 
import (
	"testing"
    
	"github.com/golang/mock/gomock"
	wranglerv1 "github.com/rancher/wrangler/pkg/generated/controllers/rbac/v1"
	"github.com/rancher/wrangler/pkg/generic/fake"
	v1 "k8s.io/api/apps/v1"
)

func TestController(t *testing.T){
    // Create gomock controller. This is used by the gomock library.
	gomockCtrl := gomock.NewController(t)

    // Create a new Generic Controller Mock with type apps1.Deployment.
	deployMock := fake.NewMockControllerInterface[*v1.Deployment, *v1.DeploymentList](ctrl)

    // Wrap our mocked genericController around the type specific DeploymentGenericController 
    // which satisfies DeploymentController interface
	testDeployCtrl := wranglerv1.DeploymentGenericController{deployMock}

    // Define expected calls to our mock controller using gomock.
    deployMock.EXPECT().Enqueue("test-namespace", "test-name").AnyTimes()

    // Start Test Code.
    // .
    // . 
    // .

    // Test calls Enqueue with expected parameters nothing happens.
    testDeployCtrl.Enqueue("test-namespace", "test-name")

    // Test calls Enqueue with unexpected parameters.
    // gomock will fail the test because it did not expect the call.
    testDeployCtrl.Enqueue("unexpected-namespace", "unexpected-name")
}
```

Commit message:

Update fakes to create valid mock controllers.
Generates the fakes package so that the mocks completely implement the
Controllers, Clients and Cache interfaces.

pkg/generic/fake/README.md, after:

# Generic Controller, Client, and Cache Mocks

This package leverages https://github.com/golang/mock for using generic mocks in tests.
[gomock](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/golang/mock/gomock) holds more specific information on different ways to use gomock in test.

## Usage
This package has four entry points for creating a mock controller, client, or cache interface.<br>
 Note: A mock controller will implement both a generic.ControllerInterface and a generic.ClientInterface.
- `NewMockControllerInterface[T runtime.Object, TList runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewMockNonNamespacedControllerInterface[T runtime.Object, TList runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewCacheInterface[T runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`
- `NewNonNamespaceCacheInterface[T runtime.Object](*gomock.Controller)`

## Examples

Example use of generic/fake with a generated Deployment Controller.
``` golang
// Generated controller interface to mock.
type DeploymentController interface {
	generic.ControllerMeta
	DeploymentClient
	OnChange(ctx context.Context, name string, sync DeploymentHandler)
	OnRemove(ctx context.Context, name string, sync DeploymentHandler)
	Enqueue(namespace, name string)
	EnqueueAfter(namespace, name string, duration time.Duration)
	Cache() DeploymentGenericCache
}
```
``` golang
// Example Test Function 
import (
	"testing"
    
	"github.com/golang/mock/gomock"
	wranglerv1 "github.com/rancher/wrangler/pkg/generated/controllers/rbac/v1"
	"github.com/rancher/wrangler/pkg/generic/fake"
	v1 "k8s.io/api/apps/v1"
)

func TestController(t *testing.T){
    // Create gomock controller. This is used by the gomock library.
	gomockCtrl := gomock.NewController(t)

    // Create a new Generic Controller Mock with type apps1.Deployment.
	deployMock := fake.NewMockControllerInterface[*v1.Deployment, *v1.DeploymentList](ctrl)

    // Wrap our mocked genericController around the type specific DeploymentGenericController 
    // which satisfies DeploymentController interface
	testDeployCtrl := wranglerv1.DeploymentGenericController{deployMock}

    // Define expected calls to our mock controller using gomock.
    deployMock.EXPECT().Enqueue("test-namespace", "test-name").AnyTimes()

    // Start Test Code.
    // .
    // . 
    // .

    // Test calls Enqueue with expected parameters nothing happens.
    testDeployCtrl.Enqueue("test-namespace", "test-name")

    // Test calls Enqueue with unexpected parameters.
    // gomock will fail the test because it did not expect the call.
    testDeployCtrl.Enqueue("unexpected-namespace", "unexpected-name")
}
```

### NonNamespacedController
```golang
ctrl := gomock.NewController(t)

mock := fake.NewMockNonNamespacedControllerInterface[*v3.RoleTemplate, *v3.RoleTemplateList](ctrl)

mock.EXPECT().List(gomock.Any()).Return(nil, nil)

roleTemplateController := RoleTemplateGenericController{mock}
```

## Fake Generation
This package was generated with `mockgen -package fake -destination ./controller.go -source ../controller.go` and `mockgen -package fake -destination ./cache.go -source ../cache.go`

Due to an open issue with mockgen https://github.com/golang/mock/issues/649
`controller.go` must be modified for the generation to succeed.
1. Comment out the `comparable` in RuntimeMetaObject
2. Remove `[T, TList]` on the embedded client interface for ControllerInterface and NonNamespacedControllerInterface. This will cause the file to no longer build but the generation will succeed.
   
    ``` golang
        type ControllerInterface[T RuntimeMetaObject, TList runtime.Object interface {
            ControllerMeta
            ClientInterface //[T, TList]

    ```
